INTRO
Karn's Algorithm improves the round trip time (RTT) estimation accuracy when sending data
using the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).

More specifically, Karn's Algorithm isolates smoothed round trip time (SRTT) calculations 
from the retransmission ambiguity problem, while still enabling retransmission timeouts (RTO)
to respond to increases in RTT and other network issues, by scaling out retransmissions timers.



RETRANSMISSION AMBIGUITY
The retransmission ambiguity problem occurs when a sender has retransmitted a packet and
receives an acknowledgement (ACK) for the data. The sender cannot be certain whether the 
ACK received was for the original (presumed lost) packet or for the resent packet. If 
receiver is acknowledging (ACK) the original packet, the RTT sample is significantly longer 
than the current SRTT value. If the receiver is acknowledging (ACK) the retransmitted packet, 
RTT is likely closer to the current SRTT value and the original packet or ACK was lost.



KARN's ALGORITHM
The first part of Karn's Algorithm states that when there is retransmission ambiguity, 
RTT measurements are ignored instead of being incorporated into SRTT to avoid skewing SRTT 
incorrectly.

So basically Karn's alogrithm throws away unreliable data that might skew the system's
round-trip time estimate.

For each retransmission, TCP applies a "backoff factor" to each RTO, so subsequent 
retransmission timers are double the previous. The backoff factor is not reset until there 
is a successful data transmit that does not require a retransmission. Combined, these 
algorithms represent the second part of Karn's Algorithm. This process ensures that the 
network is not flooded with duplicate packets, allowing it to recover from potential 
congestion issues. It also guarantees useful RTT information is not discarded. According to 
the first part of Karn's Algorithm, all of the RTT measurements during the RTO backoff are 
ignored because data is retransmitted. When data is sent successfully without retransmission, 
the corresponding RTT measurement, which likely tracks closely to the current RTO value, 
can be incorporated into SRTT.